Use CoreOS Prometheus operator (#1457)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/book/appendix_metrics.adoc

[id='metrics-{context}']
== Metrics

This section describes how to monitor {ProductName} Kafka and ZooKeeper clusters using Grafana dashboards.

> To run the example dashboards you must configure a Prometheus server and add the appropriate https://github.com/prometheus/jmx_exporter[Prometheus JMX Exporter] rules to your Kafka cluster resource.

Reviewer: This should link to our own docs for the `metrics` field. Not to JMX Exporter.

> To run the example dashboards you must configure a Prometheus server and add the appropriate xref:assembly-deployment-configuration-kafka-{context}[JMX exporter configuration] to your Kafka cluster resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run the example dashboards you must configure a Prometheus server and add the appropriate xref:assembly-deployment-configuration-kafka-{context}[metrics configuration] to your Kafka cluster resource.
```

> To run the example dashboards you must configure a Prometheus server and add the appropriate xref:assembly-deployment-configuration-kafka-{context}[JMX exporter configuration] to your Kafka cluster resource.

Reviewer: Does this link work properly when you render the docs (`make docu_html`)? I do not think it ill get you to the chapter about the `metrics` property.

=== Kafka Metrics Configuration

> {ProductName} uses the https://github.com/prometheus/jmx_exporter[Prometheus JMX Exporter] to export JMX metrics from Kafka and ZooKeeper to a Prometheus HTTP metrics endpoint that is scraped by Prometheus server.

Reviewer: I think this should use the proper link format as we use in other places (E.g. `link:https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#basic_ops_racks[Kafka racks documentation^]`). It maybe should be also in attributed to make it easy to change in all places if needed.

It also discovers an Alertmanager instance in the same namespace.
If you are using a different namespace, download the resource file and update it using the following command:

On Linux, use:

[source,shell,subs=+quotes]
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/prometheus.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus.yaml

On MacOS, use:

[source,shell,subs=+quotes]
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/prometheus.yaml | sed -e '' 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus.yaml

To define Prometheus jobs that will scrape the metrics data, you must apply the `ServiceMonitor` resource located in the provided `strimzi-service-monitor.yaml` file.
Download this file using the following command:

[source,shell,subs=+quotes]

> curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/strimzi-service-monitor.yaml

Author: Good catch! Thanks.

Currently, the Prometheus Operator only supports jobs that include an `endpoints` role for service discovery.
To use another role, edit the `additionalScrapeConfigs` property in the `prometheus.yaml` configuration file.
This takes the name of the `Secret` and the name of the property in a given `Secret` in which additional configuration is stored.
To create this `Secret` resource, use the following command:

[source,shell,subs=+quotes]

> curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/additional-properties/prometheus-additional.yaml

Reviewer 2: Same here, the file is not downloaded, but written to STDOUT, I would add a -O (and probably remove the -s) option

ifdef::Kubernetes[]
==== Deploying Prometheus on {KubernetesName}

The provided `prometheus.yaml` file, with all the Prometheus related resources, creates a `ClusterRoleBinding` in the `myproject` namespace.
It also discovers an Alertmanager instance in the same namespace.
If you are using a different namespace, download the resource file and update it as follows:

On Linux, use:

[source,shell,subs=+quotes]
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/prometheus.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus.yaml

On MacOS, use:

[source,shell,subs=+quotes]
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/prometheus.yaml | sed -e '' 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus.yaml

To define Prometheus jobs that will scrape the metrics data, you must apply the `ServiceMonitor` resource located in the provided `strimzi-service-monitor.yaml` file.
Download it by using the following command:

[source,shell,subs=+quotes]

> curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/strimzi-service-monitor.yaml

Reviewer 2: Same here, the file is not downloaded, but written to STDOUT, I would add a -O (and probably remove the -s) option

Currently, the Prometheus Operator only supports jobs that include an `endpoints` role for service discovery. To use another role, edit the `additionalScrapeConfigs` property in the `prometheus.yaml` configuration file. This takes the name of the `Secret` and the name of the property in a given `Secret` in which additional configuration is stored.

To create this `Secret` resource, use the following command:

[source,shell,subs=+quotes]

> curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/additional-properties/prometheus-additional.yaml

Reviewer 2: Same here, the file is not downloaded, but written to STDOUT, I would add a -O (and probably remove the -s) option

=== Prometheus

In Strimzi we use CoreOS Prometheus Operator which can be deployed by applying these https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/tree/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator[`Prometheus Operator YAML files`] from CoreOS repository.
This operator allows us to run healthy and highly available Prometheus server what is one of the requirements for the production.

If you use another namespace than in the repository files do you can download and edit single file by using a command.

[source,shell,subs=attributes+]

> curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/;s/regex: myproject/regex: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml

Reviewer 3: you are just downloading the YAML applying `sed` but then no oc/kubectl apply command is executed for really deploying the operator.

Strimzi repository contains configuration files for Prometheus server and by applying them a resources are created.
These resources are managed by Prometheus Operator.

The following resources are defined:

* A `ClusterRole` that grants permissions to read Prometheus health endpoints of the Kubernetes system, including cAdvisor and kubelet for container metrics.  The Prometheus server configuration uses the Kubernetes service discovery feature in order to discover the pods in the cluster from which it gets metrics.  In order to have this feature working, it is necessary for the service account used for running the Prometheus service pod to have access to the API server to get the pod list.
* A `ServiceAccount` for the Prometheus pods to run under.
* A `ClusterRoleBinding` which binds the aforementioned `ClusterRole` to the `ServiceAccount`.
* A `Deployment` to manage the Prometheus Operator pod.
* A `ServiceMonitor` to manage configuration of Prometheus pod.
* A `Secret` to manage additional Prometheus settings.
* A `PrometheusRule` to manage alert rules for Prometheus pod.

> * A `Prometheus` to manage Prometheus pod configuration.

Reviewer 3: Maybe we should add a link to the Prometheus operator repo where these resources are explained in details.

=== Prometheus

> https://prometheus.io/[Prometheus] is an open-source set of components for systems monitoring and alerting. {ProductName} uses the https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator[CoreOS Prometheus Operator] to run Prometheus on Kubernetes. This Operator enables you to run a highly available Prometheus server that is suitable for use in production environments.

Reviewer: Link format again.

curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-service-account.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus-operator-service-account.yaml
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-cluster-role.yaml > prometheus-operator-cluster-role.yaml

If needed, you can remove the `securityContext` from the Prometheus Operator Deployment. You can either manually remove the `spec.template.spec.securityContext` property from the `prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml` file, or run the following command:
[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]
yq d -i prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml spec.template.spec.securityContext

Next, apply all the files using the following commands:
[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]
oc apply -f prometheus-operator-service-account.yaml
oc apply -f prometheus-operator-cluster-role.yaml
oc apply -f prometheus-operator-cluster-role-binding.yaml
oc apply -f prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml

> 

Reviewer: Two empty lines are probably not necessary.

> The {ProductName} repository contains configuration files for the Prometheus server. When you apply these configuration files, the following resources are created in your Kafka cluster and managed by the Prometheus Operator. 

Reviewer: One sentence per line please. The first part of this para somehow doesn't fit for me here. In the second you probably want to change _Kafka cluster_ to _{OpenShiftName} cluster_?

* A `ClusterRole` that grants permissions to read the Prometheus health endpoints of the {OpenShiftName} system, including cAdvisor and the kubelet for container metrics. The Prometheus server configuration uses the {OpenShiftName} service discovery feature in order to discover the pods in the cluster from which it gets metrics.  For this feature to work correctly, the service account used for running the Prometheus service pod must have access to the API server so it can retrieve the pod list.
* A `ServiceAccount` for the Prometheus pods to run under.
* A `ClusterRoleBinding` which binds the aforementioned `ClusterRole` to the `ServiceAccount`.
* A `Deployment` to manage the Prometheus Operator pod.
* A `ServiceMonitor` to manage the configuration of the Prometheus pod.
* A `Secret` to manage additional Prometheus settings.
* A `PrometheusRule` to manage alert rules for the Prometheus pod.
* A `Prometheus` to manage the configuration of the Prometheus pod.

> Prometheus also provides an alerting system through the link:https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/alertmanager/[Alertmanager] component.

Reviewer: This paragraph gets me a bit confused as it doesn't seem to be about the Prometheus operator anymore but about our rules. Should it really be here in this chapter?

To enable alerting, the provided link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/prometheus-rules.yaml[`prometheus-rules.yaml`] file describes a `PrometheusRule` resource that defines sample alerting rules for Kafka and Zookeeper metrics.
When an alert condition is evaluated as true on the Prometheus server, it sends the alert data to the Alertmanager which then uses the configured notification methods to notify the user.

For more information about setting up alerting rules, see https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/alerting_rules/[Alerting Rules] in the Prometheus documentation.

> ==== Deploying the Prometheus Operator on {KubernetesName}

Reviewer: Does this differ from OpenShift in anything else then `oc` versus `kubectl`? If not maybe we can join it into a single chapter.

Author: It does differ also in need to remove a `SecurityContext`

Reviewer: The security context stuff is written in very generic form ... _When needed ..._ ... I wonder if that is enough to have seprate chapters for OpenShift and Kube.

* A `Deployment` to manage the Prometheus Operator pod.
* A `ServiceMonitor` to manage the configuration of the Prometheus pod.
* A `Secret` to manage additional Prometheus settings.
* A `PrometheusRule` to manage alert rules for the Prometheus pod.
* A `Prometheus` to manage the configuration of the Prometheus pod.

Prometheus also provides an alerting system through the link:https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/alertmanager/[Alertmanager] component.
To enable alerting, the provided link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/prometheus-rules.yaml[`prometheus-rules.yaml`] file describes a `PrometheusRule` resource that defines sample alerting rules for Kafka and Zookeeper metrics.
When an alert condition is evaluated as true on the Prometheus server, it sends the alert data to the Alertmanager which then uses the configured notification methods to notify the user.

For more information about setting up alerting rules, see https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/alerting_rules/[Alerting Rules] in the Prometheus documentation.

==== Deploying Prometheus on {OpenShiftName}

> The provided `prometheus.yaml` file, together with the Prometheus related resources, creates a `ClusterRoleBinding` in the `myproject` namespace.

Reviewer: Provided where? Do we need to add path or link?

To create this `Secret` resource, use the following command:

[source,shell,subs=attributes+]
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/additional-properties/prometheus-additional.yaml
oc create secret generic additional-scrape-configs --from-file=prometheus-additional.yaml

The provided `prometheus-rules.yaml` file creates a `PrometheusRule` with sample alerting rules. Download and update the resource file as follows:

[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/prometheus-rules.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus-rules.yaml

To deploy these resources, run the following commands:

[source,shell,subs=attributes+]
oc login -u system:admin
oc apply -f strimzi-service-monitor.yaml
oc apply -f prometheus-rules.yaml
oc apply -f prometheus.yaml

ifdef::Kubernetes[]

> ==== Deploying Prometheus on {KubernetesName}

Reviewer: Again, do these differ in something more than just `oc` versus `kubectl`?

Author: Not at this place

Reviewer: So if it does not differ, would it be easier to merge it into one chapter with two separate command sets?

=== Prometheus

link:https://prometheus.io/[Prometheus^] is an open-source set of components for systems monitoring and alerting.
{ProductName} uses the link:https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator[CoreOS Prometheus Operator^] to run Prometheus on Kubernetes.
This Operator enables you to run a highly available Prometheus server that is suitable for use in production environments.

==== Deploying the Prometheus Operator on {OpenShiftName}

To deploy the Prometheus Operator in your Kafka cluster, apply the `.yaml` files from the link:https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/tree/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator[Prometheus CoreOS repository^].

> To use a different namespace than that specified in the repository files, use the following commands to download and edit the files from the repository:

Reviewer: Can we specify the namespace used in the repository files? This way people don't know whether they are using different namespace or not.

[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]  

> curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml

Reviewer: I think that on other places we have Linux and MacOS versions. Should we have them here as well?

curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-cluster-role-binding.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus-operator-cluster-role-binding.yaml
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-service-account.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus-operator-service-account.yaml
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-cluster-role.yaml > prometheus-operator-cluster-role.yaml

If needed, you can remove the `securityContext` from the Prometheus Operator `Deployment`.
You can either manually remove the `spec.template.spec.securityContext` property from the `prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml` file, or run the following command:
[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]

> yq d -i prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml spec.template.spec.securityContext

Reviewer: Honestly, not sure how many people will have `yq` installed and whether it will be the right `yq` with which the command would work. I would maybe leave this without the example.

Next, apply all the files using the following commands:
[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]
oc apply -f prometheus-operator-service-account.yaml
oc apply -f prometheus-operator-cluster-role.yaml
oc apply -f prometheus-operator-cluster-role-binding.yaml
oc apply -f prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml

> The {ProductName} repository contains configuration files for the Prometheus server.

Reviewer: Add link to GitHub or maybe even better path to where to find them in the release artifacts or something like that.

* A `ServiceAccount` for the Prometheus pods to run under.
* A `ClusterRoleBinding` which binds the aforementioned `ClusterRole` to the `ServiceAccount`.
* A `Deployment` to manage the Prometheus Operator pod.
* A `ServiceMonitor` to manage the configuration of the Prometheus pod.
* A `Secret` to manage additional Prometheus settings.
* A `PrometheusRule` to manage alert rules for the Prometheus pod.
* A `Prometheus` to manage the configuration of the Prometheus pod.

==== Deploying the Prometheus Operator on {KubernetesName}

To deploy the Prometheus Operator in your Kafka cluster, apply the `.yaml` files from the https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/tree/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator[Prometheus CoreOS repository].

> To use a different namespace than that specified in the repository files, use the following commands to download and edit the files from the repository:

Reviewer: Same as above, please mention which namespace does it use to make it easier for users to decide if this is different namespace or not.

[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]

> curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml

Reviewer: I think that on other places we have Linux and MacOS versions. Should we have them here as well?

curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-cluster-role-binding.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus-operator-cluster-role-binding.yaml
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-service-account.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus-operator-service-account.yaml
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-cluster-role.yaml > prometheus-operator-cluster-role.yaml

Next, apply all the files using the following commands:
[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]
kubectl apply -f prometheus-operator-service-account.yaml
kubectl apply -f prometheus-operator-cluster-role.yaml
kubectl apply -f prometheus-operator-cluster-role-binding.yaml
kubectl apply -f prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml

> The {ProductName} repository contains configuration files for the Prometheus server. When you apply these configuration files, the following resources are created in your {KubernetesName} cluster and managed by the Prometheus Operator.

Reviewer: Same as above - a link or path to these files would be useful.

* A `ServiceAccount` for the Prometheus pods to run under.
* A `ClusterRoleBinding` which binds the aforementioned `ClusterRole` to the `ServiceAccount`.
* A `Deployment` to manage the Prometheus Operator pod.
* A `ServiceMonitor` to manage the configuration of the Prometheus pod.
* A `Secret` to manage additional Prometheus settings.
* A `PrometheusRule` to manage alert rules for the Prometheus pod.
* A `Prometheus` to manage the configuration of the Prometheus pod.

==== Deploying Prometheus on {OpenShiftName}

The provided link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/prometheus.yaml[`prometheus.yaml`^] file, together with the Prometheus related resources, creates a `ClusterRoleBinding` in the `myproject` namespace.
It also discovers an Alertmanager instance in the same namespace.
If you are using a different namespace, download the resource file and update it using the following command:

[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]

> curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/prometheus.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus.yaml

Reviewer: I think that on other places we have Linux and MacOS versions. Should we have them here as well?

To enable alerting, the provided link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/prometheus-rules.yaml[`prometheus-rules.yaml`^] file describes a `PrometheusRule` resource that defines sample alerting rules for Kafka and Zookeeper metrics.
When an alert condition is evaluated as true on the Prometheus server, it sends the alert data to the Alertmanager which then uses the configured notification methods to notify the user.

For more information about setting up alerting rules, see https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/alerting_rules/[Alerting Rules] in the Prometheus documentation.

ifdef::Kubernetes[]
==== Deploying Prometheus on {KubernetesName}

The provided `prometheus.yaml` file, with all the Prometheus related resources, creates a `ClusterRoleBinding` in the `myproject` namespace.
It also discovers an Alertmanager instance in the same namespace.
If you are using a different namespace, download the resource file and update it as follows:

[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]

> curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/prometheus.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus.yaml

Reviewer: I think that on other places we have Linux and MacOS versions. Should we have them here as well?

https://prometheus.io/[Prometheus] is an open-source set of components for systems monitoring and alerting. {ProductName} uses the https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator[CoreOS Prometheus Operator] to run Prometheus on Kubernetes. This Operator enables you to run a highly available Prometheus server that is suitable for use in production environments.

> ==== Deploying Prometheus Operator on {OpenShiftName}

Reviewer 4: Deploying the Prometheus Operator on {OpenShiftName}

To deploy the Prometheus Operator in your Kafka cluster, apply the `.yaml` files from the https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/tree/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator[Prometheus CoreOS repository].

> To use a different namespace than that specified in the repository files, use the following commands to download and edit the files from respository:

Reviewer 4: files from respository > files from the repository

[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]  
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/;s/regex: myproject/regex: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-cluster-role-binding.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/;s/regex: myproject/regex: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus-operator-cluster-role-binding.yaml
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-service-account.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/;s/regex: myproject/regex: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus-operator-service-account.yaml
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-cluster-role.yaml

> It might happen you need to remove `securityContext` from Prometheus Operator Deployment which is located in the `prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml` file.

Reviewer 3: Well it should be true for OpenShift only I guess, so we should highlight this. The bigger question is, did you test this stuff on minikube?

Author: I did. I also had some issue but I do not recall what that was.

Reviewer 3: What do you mean by "issue"? Did it work? Do we need a "workaround" for minikube as well?

Author: I am not sure :O but I think it did not work. Let me try it again.

Reviewer 3: If it didn't work we have to understand why :-) Otherwise the PR will be not ready to be merged

> It might happen you need to remove `securityContext` from Prometheus Operator Deployment which is located in the `prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml` file.

Reviewer 4: Please reword as follows:

If needed, you can remove the `securityContext` from the Prometheus Operator Deployment. You can either manually remove the `spec.template.spec.securityContext` property from the `prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml` file,  or run the following command:

You can do it manually by removing property `spec.template.spec.securityContext` or use this command:
[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]
yq d -i prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml spec.template.spec.securityContext

> Now you can apply all the files by the commands:

Reviewer 4: Please reword:

Next, apply all the files using the following commands:

curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-cluster-role-binding.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus-operator-cluster-role-binding.yaml
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-service-account.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus-operator-service-account.yaml
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/master/example/rbac/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator-cluster-role.yaml > prometheus-operator-cluster-role.yaml

Next, apply all the files using the following commands:
[source,shell,subs="+quotes"]
kubectl apply -f prometheus-operator-service-account.yaml
kubectl apply -f prometheus-operator-cluster-role.yaml
kubectl apply -f prometheus-operator-cluster-role-binding.yaml
kubectl apply -f prometheus-operator-deployment.yaml

> 

Reviewer 4: Remove extra + character.

The {ProductName} repository contains configuration files for the Prometheus server. When you apply these configuration files, the following resources are created in your Kafka cluster and managed by the Prometheus Operator.

> * A `ClusterRole` that grants permissions to read the Prometheus health endpoints of the Kubernetes system, including cAdvisor and the kubelet for container metrics. The Prometheus server configuration uses the Kubernetes service discovery feature in order to discover the pods in the cluster from which it gets metrics.  For this feature to work correctly, the service account used for running the Prometheus service pod must have access to the API server so it can retrieve the pod list.

Reviewer 4: Kubernetes system > {KubernetesName} system

Kubernetes service > {KubernetesName} service

Author: Does this apply also for the line 68? Should be there `{OpenShiftName}`?

Reviewer 4: Yes, it looks that way.

* A `Deployment` to manage the Prometheus Operator pod.
* A `ServiceMonitor` to manage the configuration of the Prometheus pod.
* A `Secret` to manage additional Prometheus settings.
* A `PrometheusRule` to manage alert rules for the Prometheus pod.
* A `Prometheus` to manage the configuration of the Prometheus pod.

Prometheus also provides an alerting system through the link:https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/alertmanager/[Alertmanager] component.
To enable alerting, the provided link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/prometheus-rules.yaml[`prometheus-rules.yaml`] file describes a `PrometheusRule` resource that defines sample alerting rules for Kafka and Zookeeper metrics.
When an alert condition is evaluated as true on the Prometheus server, it sends the alert data to the Alertmanager which then uses the configured notification methods to notify the user.

For more information about setting up alerting rules, see https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/alerting_rules/[Alerting Rules] in the Prometheus documentation.

> 

Reviewer 4: Remove extra + character.

> ==== Deploying Prometheus on {OpenShiftName}

Reviewer 4: It doesn't break anything, but you can remove the plus character from the heading.

Author: The `+` character is not in the pushed changes. That is patch syntax :)

Reviewer 4: D'oh! OK, that's fine with me.
